what would happen if the apocalypse was
upon us what would happen if we were
left to survive in the wild or if
zombies chased us out of our cities this
seems pretty unlikely but since a big
part of what we do on this channel is to
do things we've never done before
and since we have gone lost those in the
mountains and in the jungle we thought
would prepare ourselves by partnering up
with two badass Army veterans rockin
McHale who took us on a military
training last week to learn the three
basics of survival shelter fire and
water mmm
today we drink survival skills cool it's
running with city living shoes part of
it yeah
[Music]
you'll learn how to survive an actual
apocalypse today
there's zombies you're locked in the
wild we're starting the day with the run
run fast come on baby sprint
boss boss needs Leonardo there pal gotta
stand up I'll keep them lungs open
is that worked out the other say we go
home we're going to sleep to 48 hours
good oh yeah Mikkel was literally
pushing ah we got a princess right here
one two let's assume we're out here in
the mountains with lost that we might
end up being here for three to five days
what would you guys do there yeah my
inspector used to be close to a tree I
don't know if that helps at all but to
maybe start the filter yeah my goodness
discover there immediately what I would
be thinking about my priorities of work
and what I need to accomplish to live
out here for three to five days
we know that shelter is the most
important what that means to me is fire
and then it also means building a
shelter if you freeze death in the night
you're not going to make it the second
one is going to be water but if you're
being hunted by under wolves or bears or
zombies I don't know how do you hide
from that zombies is pretty likely
zombies are likely if there's a known
enemy whether it's animal or another
person you would definitely start
preparing yourself for some type of
fight and you would never separate also
for context his wife can otherwise be
like who do we build apart I mean you
need to build it right then why we hired
Eileen on the team what I would do first
they're zombies
I would attach there and so pole and use
it as bait once they get here at full
sized Rand would do only the sacrifice
he is not a dealer I got the knife some
good but I leave the hooker I be the
only one surviving all right why don't
you guys go get some wood all right well
what any around or
thunderhorse we can attack during on Wow
that was those red ants extremely
excrement expression could be zombie who
knows the wild lands surrounded by
predators young courageous team were
building the proper the proper shelter
to survive urbanized Eileen is the head
honcho she's leading although this looks
amazing
limits her up there you go alright so
hey let's get the crew out here explain
what you guys did so in this area that
we're given you're really hidden so you
could have people passing within 20 feet
of you and they wouldn't know where
you're at you mean it hi it's going to
take a lot of vegetation to insulate it
with people there if you're not by
yourself body heat is very very crucial
when I was in the military and sleeping
in a cold environment we would bundle up
together and having that skin-to-skin
contact is uh
is good thank you it keeps you warm why
don't we walk over and we'll give our
concept of why we chose our shelter what
we did good job though okay be good
which is good six out of ten seven seven
no no I said we didn't give it a seven
ah where's your saying good job okay
so Mikkel and I walked around but when
you're looking for is a location that
was easy to build as we're walking were
on a slope we're able to see right in
front of us there's a lot of open land
right the objective here is to be found
by by the searching party and get rescue
could be because we this is our trip yes
this was here originally and there's a
lot of branches underneath first thing
we do is we scooped out the branches we
made a spot that's small enough because
both of us
the smaller you make the shelter in my
opinion the better off you are
so we do from here scraps on the bedding
that we have and we would just start
making our boat all right well inside
this bed dish hey sweetie hey how was
your day I was vegetable here it'll be
fine
no you're the big yeah that's very good
it is a custom what we had is a
cantaloupe would you sleep here yeah
we graduate from shelter and now we're
looking at the second priority of work
which is building a fire starting a fire
is one of the hardest things that you're
going to do especially if you don't have
a lighter or matches the one step that
everyone skips when they're making a
fire is the preparation involved the
preparation can make a fire is probably
more important than the actual mechanism
you're going to use Aaron's going to
have some steel wool for the batteries
Matt's got a pair of sunglasses so we're
going to tie some optical plays to
identify and then Thomas has the old
standby flint and you got it we got five
we got five look at that look at that
I'm trying to find a point that makes
the smallest thought and that's going to
concentrate the power of its own whoa
my bad there you go just like that
like maybe put in oatmeal I'll go for
right here murders up oh you got it
I got I sure I get later done we're not
gonna use my phones away there is about
try and touch the straight and carry me
Cal so we'll see if you want to try on
the back first okay all right don't drop
me one after two day hike a mile like
that yeah okay so we changed scenery
across from the forest area we were at
all the way back there so we trying to
do a bit of a recon mission to see if we
can find any water yeah I'm excited to
see it with a Griffin water out of here
seriously what the hell we're trying to
find water in desert which is obviously
something very difficult to do
I will notice mountains all the goalies
are coming to one location if we're
going to find water it's going to be at
the base of the mountain
[Music]
the theories writers write and worked
out in the middle of the desert and we
just found a flowing stream no way
whoa whoa why is it yes it's a bit
Darrin scream ah this is crazy actually
look around in the middle of the valley
few to all the water from both mountains
comes right here in one area when you're
walking down the dry streambed you go to
one the been so you identify the little
part yeah that's where you dick that's
going to be the last part in the stream
that has water in what happens if you
drink this water though uh you got to
boil it first just to be safe
what doc takes to do so yeah that's not
safe to do I would sort of say huge
thank you to rocking Mikkel for having
us out of here first taking us through
the military training and then taking us
through some basic survival skills it's
honest even a blast yeah we all get we
hug all right that's nice time we always
like I love this guy
[Music]
yeah you guys kicked butt today
and yesterday we run a nonprofit called
Ranger Road Ranger org and we work with
all veterans Army Navy Marine Corps
National Guard mostly disabled veterans
and we take them through skydiving
advance fishing events we help them take
down first step in the right direction
[Music]